For two years, mIRC didn't support bold, underline, reverse,
or color codes while other irc clients already did. In fact
other irc clients used their own proprietary color format.

Alas, previous irc client coders didn't cooperate on creating a
color code standard. Before implementing color codes in mIRC, I
talked to various people to try to find a standard format and a
standard color order... not only did everyone I talk to have a
different opinion but since every IRC client that supported color
codes already implemented it's own proprietory color code and
color ordering, my choice for color codes would have ended up
not being compatible with the majority of clients anyway.

I saw no reason to be compatible with ircii over pirch, or pirch
over ircle, or ircle over eggdrop, etc. All of these irc clients
use a different color format. I chose to be as compatible as
possible with Ircle because it was the first format suggested to
me and seemed to make sense. ANSI cannot be used... IRC Servers
don't allow escape characters to be sent as part of text, and if
you send ANSI characters without the escape code, it will appear
as rubbish on ANSI terminals. EPIC irc clients can interpret
this, but all other irc clients can't.

It seems that the reason non-mIRC users are complaining isn't
because mIRC uses color codes or because color codes are wrong
(because other clients already use them) but because there are
a lot of mIRC users, and their own clients don't support the
mIRC color format.

I've always made an effort to create positive useful features
in mIRC, and to be as compatible as possible with other clients,
as well as to be irc server-friendly, and mIRC wouldn't be
what it is today if I hadn't listened to and acted on criticisms
and suggestions from many people.

However, the current "debate" is illogical since other irc
clients used color codes long before mIRC did, and in fact
they are the reason I implemented color in mIRC in the first
place. So I certainly have no intention of removing colour
codes from mIRC based on that argument.

If *all* irc clients stop supporting color codes, I would also
consider removing this feature from mIRC. If all IRC Clients
decide on a single color code format and color order, I will
gladly implement that (perhaps this little "incident" will
finally result in some cooperation), but until that happens
I just can't see how it could be fair to ask me to remove color
codes and prevent mIRC users from using them and yet allow other
clients and their users to use them.

Also note that I will not implement color codes that are not
simple and intuitive to use. The mIRC color format was designed
so that human beings can use it, not so that machines can
interpret it. Anything which requires memorizing combinations of
several letters numbers and other characters (eg. ANSI) is just
pointless.

I will also not implement any specific color code just to be
compatible with what somebody else thinks is the standard. Since
releasing mIRC 4.7, I've already had five different color code
formats suggested to me from people who thought these formats
were the real standard and they were annoyed that I didn't use
their format.

